# S++

<primary-label ref="header-label"/>

<secondary-label ref="doc-wip"/>

## Language

S++ is a statically-typed, compiled language, designed to be high-performance, readable and versatile. It uses a blend
of techniques to enforce memory safety, including second-class borrows, the law of exclusivity, and ownership tracking.
Object-oriented programming is supported.

Features from `Rust`, and `Python` majorly inspired multiple aspects of the language, including memory models, error
handling, function definitions. There are smaller / specific parts of `Go`, `Java`, and `C++` that have also inspired
the language.

## Philosophy

- **Performance**: S++ is designed to be a high-performance language, with a focus on runtime performance. This is
  achieved by compiling S++ to native code, using LLVM as a backend, allowing S++ is able to achieve the performance of
  C++ and Rust.

- **Readability**: S++ is designed with readability in mind. Whilst being loosely inspired by the C-family syntax, a
  number of changes were made with regard to keywords and tokens, and removing legacy syntax. This includes keeping
  keywords of the same "group" the same length, and ensuring a top-to-bottom/left-to-right reading rule for every block
  of code.

- **Orthogonal**: S++ is designed to be an orthogonal language, where functions, arrays, tuples and any other types that
  would usually be treated specially as "primitive" types are all treated as first-class objects. This enforces
  consistency and prevents any unintended interactions between different features, especially when using these types as
  generic arguments.

- **Versatile**: S++ is designed to be a versatile language, with a focus on being able to be used for multiple
  purposes. This is achieved by drawing features from a number of different paradigms, including object-oriented,
  functional, and procedural programming.

- **Efficient**: S++ is designed to be both efficient for the user to program in, and efficient for the machine to
  execute. This is achieved by stripping out legacy features in other languages, forcing type inference to reduce how
  much the user has to type, and maintaining "one correct way to do things" to reduce the number of ways a feature can
  be implemented.

- **Safety** S++ is designed to be a safe language, by using second-class borrows, enforcing the law of exclusivity, and
  tracking ownership throughout blocks. Using these three techniques together ensures safety in every aspect of the
  language, without having to use complex lifetime analysis or a reference counting / garbage-collection.
